# Collaborating with Laravel, GitHub and Heroku

## Laravel and git

Laravel comes with a .gitignore file which includes the vendor and
storage folder as well as .env. There are reasons for this:

-   vendor contains the dependencies. We don’t want to put all the
    dependencies under version control, this will slow git down (many
    more files that it needs to track). Our dependancies should be
    managed by Composer

-   storage is for things like logging files, these should stay local on
    each system

-   `.env` reflect the local environment

Do **NOT** change the `.gitignore` file!

So how do you work with Laravel and Git?

a.  one team mate can create the Laravel project, define the key, set
    all the common config in the config folder and .env

b.  this team mate should copy the changes that they made in .env so
    that they are also in .env.example

c.  If desired, you can also take care of creating the Heroku Procfile
    at this point (and other heroku related setup – see step 2 below)

d.  once ensuring that they can see the Laravel splash page locally,
    this team mate does git init, git add, commit, set the remote called
    origin to the GitHub repo that I created, and push to the empty
    GitHub repo

e.  other teammates will git clone – this will set the remote called
    origin the the github repo automatically

f.  other teammates copy the `.env.example` file and rename if `.env`.

g.  other teammates run composer update to install all the dependancies

## GitHub vs Heroku

After step 1, you will all have your remote called origin referring
to GitHub. All we need to do is add a second remote that referrers
to heroku.

For one team mate:

`heroku create <nameofapp>` will create the team’s heroku app, and also
sets a git remote called `heroku`.

All other team mates: `git remote add heroku
    <https://urlofheroku.git>`

From this point all, you will all have a remote called origin
referring to GitHub, and a remote called heroku referring to Heroku.

(git allows you to have a remote refer to 2 places so both are
pushed to automatically, but I don’t think this is necessary)

## Debugging on Heroku

Many of you had problems in Project 2 once you deployed on Heroku.
To debug:

-   open the Heroku dashboard

-   to the right, you see a button More…

-   click it and select Views Logs

-   this show you logs, and is where you will find any PHP related
    warnings or errors. Unfortunately with Laravel, these may not be
    easily decipherable since they are being generated by base classes;
    but they may give you an idea of where to look in your code…

