
# COURSE OUTLINE <small>Internet Application Development III</small>

* Number: 420-524-DW 
* Ponderation: 
    * Credits: 3

## Prerequisites
* Successful completion of all Year 2 420.A0 courses

## Co-requisites
* 420-517-DW Software Development Project – Java III

* 420-518-DW Mobile Software Development - Android

* 420-544-DW Data Communications & Networking

!!! note
    You must pass this course as well as the three co-requisite courses in order to progress to the sixth semester of the Computer Science Technology Program.

## Description

The student will be introduced to the concepts and techniques of
server-side Web programming. The student will use PHP, JavaScript, and a
database to create dynamic Web applications, and Web APIs to respond to
AJAX queries. In addition to direct PHP programming, the student is
introduced to a PHP framework.

## STATEMENTS OF COMPETENCE

-   Use an object-oriented development approach (016T)

-   Produce algorithms (016W)

-   Organize and use data (0170)

-   Assure the quality of an application (0177)

## Contacting Teachers

Jaya Nilakantan 3F.22 contact via MIO

Teacher's schedule will be posted outside the office by the end of the
first week of classes.

## Course Objectives

Upon successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

-   Describe the PHP language and environment (016W, 0170)

-   Use PHP classes and objects (016T)

-   Add dynamic content to Web pages using PHP script files and embedded
    > PHP statements (016T, 016W)

-   Write server-side PHP scripts to generate HTML responses to
    > user queries. (016T, 016W)

-   Write PHP programs to perform server-side processing of user input
    > from Web pages with forms. (016T, 016W, 0170)

-   Develop Web APIs using PHP and a database (0170)

-   Develop Web applications using PHP, JavaScript, and a
    > database (0170)

-   Understand and prevent web application security risks (0177)

-   Develop and test Web applications using a PHP framework (016T, 0177)

## Course Methodology

The course will consist of two 1½-hour lectures and one 3-hour lab
session per week. Concepts and techniques will be presented in lectures
and practical exercises that apply the concepts and techniques will be
given in the lab sessions.

## Required readings

Readings will be assigned from:

-   Official PHP documentation at [www.php.net](http://www.php.net)

-   Documentation of the PHP framework

-   PHP The Right Way <http://www.phptherightway.com>

-   Survive the Deep End: PHP Security
    <http://phpsecurity.readthedocs.io/en/latest>

## Assessment of student performance

### Midterm Examination Duration 

* 1 1/2 hours Worth: 30% (Week 7 or 8)

### Final Examination Duration

* 3 hours Worth: 40% (Exam period)

* Assignments/ProjectsWorth: 30%

## Course Outline

1. Configure PHP 1

    -   Set up a development server

    -   Set up the PHP environment with the php.ini file

2. Describe PHP language basics 2

    -   Describe the PHP language and programming environment

    -   Describe the basic syntax of the PHP language

    -   Understand PHP variable basics (variables, constants, numeric,
    > strings), naming rules and conventions

    -   Understand how PHP and HTML interact

    -   Recognize PHP control flow constructs: operators, conditionals,
    > loops

3. Use PHP arrays 1

    -   Create and use numerically indexed arrays

    -   Create and use associative arrays

    -   Create and use multidimensional arrays

    -   Use foreach looping structure

    -   Use array functions

4. Develop PHP programs to receive and process input from HTML forms 3

    -   Review http protocol

    -   Create a one-part form (both HTML and PHP in one file)

    -   Create a two-part form (HTML and PHP are separate files)

    -   Retrieve submitted data from a variety of element types: text boxes,
    > text areas, checkboxes, radio buttons, drop-down lists, submit
    > buttons

    -   Sanitize and validate input at client and server

    -   Prevent XSS and Cross-site Request Forgery attacks

    -   Redisplay a form after PHP validation errors (sticky forms)

    -   Understand and implement redirect

5. Create reusable code blocks by defining and calling functions 1

    -   Define and call user-defined functions with return values

    -   Describe the scope of identifiers in PHP

    -   Use local, global, static and references to variables

    -   Use call by value and call by reference to pass arguments

    -   Use the Include and Require statements

6. Use PHP Classes and Objects 4

    -   Create classes with properties, methods, constants

    -   Define constructors and destructors

    -   Understand inheritance and polymorphism

    -   Define static class members, and describe late static binding

    -   Compare and contrast PHP with Java and C\# in terms of Access
    > Modifiers, Abstract Classes, Interfaces, and Namespaces

    -   Compare and clone objects

    -   Perform exception handling

    -   Understand and use magic methods

7. Access and populate a database using PHP 3

    -   Connect to and query a database with PHP Data Objects (PDO)

    -   Perform error handling

    -   Prevent SQL injection

    -   use cURL and DOM traversal to scrape web pages and populate a
    > database

Midterm Exam 1

8. Understand and use state maintenance techniques 3

    -   Explore output buffering and browser caching

    -   Maintain state using query string

    -   Implement simple pagination

    -   Manage cookies with PHP: set, access, and destroy a cookie

    -   Use sessions: start a session, end a session, manage session
    > security

    -   Understand and implement best practices in authentication

9. Using AJAX 2

    -   Review Javascript and JQuery client-side implementation of AJAX

    -   Understand the server-side techniques and principles used in AJAX

    -   Compose XML and JSON documents

    -   Read and traverse XML and JSON documents

10. Explore web security considerations 4

    -   Describe XSS, CSRF, and Session Fixation attacks

    -   Implement basic security measures in PHP code

11. Use a PHP framework for web development 5

    -   Understand the basics of the MVC pattern

    -   Describe URL routing in an MVC application

    -   Describe the modular directory layout

    -   Understand purpose of a template engine, and implement views

    -   Understand and implement database migrations

    -   Implement models and controllers

    -   Understand the authentication mechanisms provided by the framework

    -   Use the framework to implement web pages and web APIs

## Program and course rules and regulations

!!!warning
    For 420 career program courses, students must receive at least 50% on the assignment component and at least 60% on the examination component in order to obtain a passing grade for the course. Failure to do so will result in a maximum grade of 50 (the lower of 50 or the grade earned). For the purpose of this rule, quizzes are considered exams.

Assignments are due at the due date specified by the instructor.
Assignments received after this time are late. Assignments will not be
accepted after due date set by instructor. In exceptional circumstances,
such as illness, etc. labs submitted late will be graded provided that
the student has received an extension from the instructor in advance.

Each student must submit their own individual answers to assignments,
and shared solutions are not acceptable. Students must protect their
work from being easily copied by others by introducing uniqueness into
their work in the choice of images used, the display styles used in the
presentation of documents, the originality of the written descriptive
passages, and by placing digital signatures on their original images.

Students are reminded that they are responsible for all material
presented in the lecture and during the lab, and are expected to obtain
material they have missed.

Students must follow exactly the instructions in the lab exercises about
how and where to store all computer files in order for their work to be
accepted and properly evaluated.

# DAWSON COLLEGE COMPUTER SCIENCE DEPARTMENT  POLICIES

## 1. ACADEMIC INTEGRITY

The Computer Science Department adheres to the Dawson College Academic
Conduct policy. Students have an obligation to inform themselves of all
aspects of this policy. According to ISEP, the teacher is required to
report to the Sector Dean all cases of cheating and plagiarism affecting
a student’s grade. (ISEP Section V-C) Students may appeal any decision
of the teacher regarding cheating and plagiarism according to the
methods established by the College. The penalty for cheating or
plagiarism may range from a zero on the work to a failure in the course.

## 2. ATTENDANCE AND LATENESS

Students are responsible for all material covered in classes and labs,
whether or not they are present. Students have an obligation to arrive
on time and to remain for the duration of scheduled classes, labs and
activities. Students who disregard this obligation may be asked to leave
the class, lab or activity. Students should refer to the Institutional
Student Evaluation Policy

(ISEP section IV-C) regarding attendance.

## 3. RELIGIOUS HOLIDAY OBSERVANCE

Class period(s) may be cancelled in order that the teacher can observe
religious holidays. Any material missed as a result, will be made up
during labs, class periods and alternate tutorial sessions.

Students, who intend to observe religious holidays, must inform their
teachers in writing as prescribed in the ISEP Policy on Religious
Observances (ISEP Section IV-D). Students absent from classes because of
observance of religious holidays will not be penalized. It must be
emphasized, however, that this College policy should not be interpreted
to mean that a student can receive credit for work not performed. It is
the student’s responsibility to fulfill the requirements of the
alternative arrangement.

## 4. SOFTWARE

The Computer Science Department forbids the use of the computer labs it
uses to make any copies of any software without the explicit
authorization of the Department. Apart from any legal action that might
arise from such unauthorized copying, the Computer Science Department
reserves the right to discipline any student involved in such activity.

Students who borrow software from the College and fail to return it will
be placed on the defaulter list and be subject to the appropriate
penalties.

Viruses are programs that attach themselves to a computer system without
the permission of those to whom the system belongs. They are
deliberately written to be, at worst, harmful (e.g. destroying the
contents of disks) and, at best, bothersome (e.g. disturbing the image
shown on the screen). They can cause serious losses of time and effort
for students, staff and faculty. Any student involved in the deliberate
spreading of viruses is subject to the most severe penalties prescribed
by College regulations, apart from any legal action that might arise
from such acts.

## 5. LITERACY

The Computer Science Department recognizes that literacy in all its
forms (read, written, spoken) is essential to our students in their
careers.

Teachers may choose to incorporate a literacy component into the marking
scheme for any piece of work. Teachers may use their discretion to
insist that any piece of work submitted for credit is revised by the
student if it is unsatisfactory with regard to literacy.

Teachers will inform all students in their courses of this policy at the
beginning of each semester either by including it in the course
description or otherwise.

## 6. CELL PHONES

The use of cell phones in all Computer Science lectures, labs and exams
is prohibited.

## 7. PORTABLE COMPUTERS

The use of portable computers in all Computer Science lectures for
purposes other than note-taking is prohibited.

## 8. STUDENT CONDUCT

Everyone has the right to a safe and non-violent environment. Students
are obliged to conduct themselves as stated in the Student Code of
Conduct and in the ISEP section on the roles and responsibilities of
students. (ISEP section II-D)

## 9. PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT POLICY

Students who are enrolled in the Computer Science Technology careers
program must conduct themselves according to the Professional Conduct
Policy as described in the Program Handbook

## 10. INTENSIVE COURSE CONFLICTS

If a student is attending an intensive course, the student must inform
the teacher, within the first two weeks of class, of the specific dates
of any anticipated absences.

## 11. ISEP 

The Institutional Student Evaluation Policy (ISEP) is designed to
promote equitable and effective evaluation of student learning and is
therefore a crucial policy to read and understand. The policy describes
the rights and obligations of students, faculty, departments, programs,
and the College administration with regard to evaluation in all your
courses, including grade reviews and resolution of academic grievance.
The ISEP is available on the Dawson website.